SQSL ESQL/C DB2 data source V0.9 release notes			Jan 5, 2009

This data source ought to be considered alpha:- I really haven't tested it
that much. This is my excuse for the sketchy documentation.
I will probably go over it again one day. Then again, given my current track
record, chances are that I will not.

Build problems
The bulk of those arises from the DB2 environment being incorrectly set.
Hopefully the build script ought to terminate early, but it is not uncommon
to see that the C compiler tries to link Informix header files rather than DB2.

Connection options
The connect statement supports the EXCLUSIVE clause, which allows to gain
exclusive access to a database.

SQL additions
Altough not really part of V7 DB2 UDB advertised SQL syntax, this source does
support the CHANGE ISOLATION statement: it does so by switching packages
on the fly. SET CURRENT ISOLATION has made it in V8 anyhow.

Further features
Decimals, dates, times and timestamps are converted onto the corresponding
Informix types on the fly, and viceversa.

Limitations
There is a limit of 128 active cursors per process at any one time: 32 named
cursors, 32 named cursors with hold, 32 unnamed cursors or statements, 32
unnamed cursors with hold.
Named cursors are named C01 to C32 and H01 to H32, the 'H' names being
assigned to WITH HOLD cursors (cursor names are fixed once and for all at
compile time and stored in the bind file/package - the application does not
even know their names). Cursor names are global at the process level.
If you come from the Informix world and this all seems weird to you, sorry.
This is the way things are with the esql/c precompiler provided by DB2. If it
makes you feel any better, REXX (Gosh! you don't know what that is?! Shame on
you!) has got the same issues. If you really are after your own cursor names,
consider using the db2cli source.

DB2 has an hang up about converting in between data types (in particular
numeric and char datatypes seem not to like each other that much). This
would not be a problem, except for the fact that the functionality offered
by the DESCRIBE statement can only be described as basic: only the SELECT
clause of the SELECT statement is described (and then, it also needs to be done
twice! once to get the select list count, and a second to get the actual
select list, once all the sqlvars have been allocated)
Oooops! back to the important stuff: the upshot of this is that inserts are
not described, hence there's no way of knowing whether placeholders need
conversions before being passed to the engine. The moral of the story is
simple - when passing stuff to the db2 engine, you have to know what needs
converting, and have to take care of the conversion yourself.

DB2 has a limit of one connection per database per process, although,
unlike the db2 clp, connections can be renamed.
